MP-4531: add doc (#207)
spryker/spryker.github.io: docs/marketplace/dev/front-end/table-design/table-configuration.md

---
title: Table Configuration
description: This articles provides details about the table configuration.
template: concept-topic-template
---

This articles provides details about the table configuration.

## Configuration

Table Configuration is basically a data structure that allows to customize behavior of the table for specific use-case.

Table config has 2 required sections:

> - [Column](#columns-configuration) definition that describes what columns user will see and what data to expect

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Columns](#columns-configuration) definition that describes what columns user will see and what data to expect
```

> - [Datasource](/docs/marketplace/dev/front-end/ui-components-library/datasources/index.html) type that describes how the data should be provided to the table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Datasource](/docs/marketplace/dev/front-end/ui-components-library/datasources/) type that describes how the data should be provided to the table.
```

The rest of the sections are reserved for features (for example Pagination Feature defines pagination section and it’s own properties to configure it).

```html
<spy-table
  config="{
    columns?: '### Section Columns Configuration ###',
    columnsUrl?: '### Section Columns Configuration ###',
    dataSource: '### See DataSource Doc ###',,
    rowActions: '### See Table Row Actions Feature Doc ###',
    pagination: '### See Table Pagination Feature Doc ###',
    search: '### See Table Search Feature Doc ###',
    title:: '### See Table Title Feature Doc ###',
    columnConfigurator: '### See Table Settings Feature Doc ###',
    filters: '### See Table Filters Feature Doc ###',
    itemSelection: '### See Table Selectable Feature Doc ###',
    syncStateUrl: '### See Table Sync State Feature Doc ###',
    editable: '### See Table Editable Feature Doc ###',
  }"
>
</spy-table>
```

### Columns Configuration

> Columns might be configured with two props. There is possible to use `url` to get columns list dynamic, in this case you should assign `columnsUrl` property in the `table` config.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Columns might be configured with two props. There is possible to use `url` to get columns list dynamically, in this case, the `columnsUrl` property should be assigned in the `table` config.
```

Also exists another way to define columns data - static array of columns objects which should be assigned to the `columns` property.

```ts
[
  // chip
  {

>     "id":"stock",

Reviewer: I think it should be mentioned that it's for example because there are described not all types.

    "title":"Stock",
    "type":"chip",
    "typeOptions": {
      "color": "green"
    },
    "typeOptionsMappings: {
      "color": {"0": "red"}
    },
  },
  // chips
  {
    id: 'status',
    type: 'chips',
    typeOptions: {
      text: '${value}',
      color: 'red',
    },
    typeOptionsMappings: {
      text: {'true': 'Active', 'false': 'Inactive'},
      color: {'true': 'green'}
    },
  },
  // select
  {
    id:"store",
    type:"select",
    typeOptions: {
        multiselect: bool,
        values: [
            {value: 1, title:"DE"},
            {value: 2, title:"AT"}
        ]
    }
  },
  // input
  {
    id:"gross_price",
    type:"input",
    typeOptions: {
        type: '|text|number|tel',
        placeholder: '0.00',
        readOnly: bool,
    }
  },
]
```

## Type Options Interpolation and Mapping

> Table Column config support interpolation. The variable inside curly brackets (e.g `${value}, ${row.title}...`) in the `typeOptions` object will be replaced to the appropriate value from the table context. Full table context is shown below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Table Column config supports interpolation. The variable inside curly brackets (e.g `${value}, ${row.title}...`) in the `typeOptions` object will be replaced to the appropriate value from the table context. 

The full table context is shown below:
```

```ts
interface TableColumnTplContext extends TableColumnContext {
  $implicit: TableColumnContext['value'];
}

interface TableColumnContext {
  value: TableDataValue;
  row: TableDataRow;
  config: TableColumn;
  i: number;
  j: number;
}

interface TableColumn extends Partial<TableColumnTypeDef> {
  id: string;
  title: string;
  width?: string;
  multiRenderMode?: boolean;
  multiRenderModeLimit?: number;
  emptyValue?: string;
  sortable?: boolean;
  searchable?: boolean;
}

type TableDataRow = Record<TableColumn['id'], TableDataValue>;

type TableDataValue = unknown | unknown[];
```

> Also Table Column support override defined `typeOptions` properties depending on the table column value. To allow this opportunity we should add `typeOptionsMappings` object where we define `typeOption` key and all available variants.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, Table Column supports overriding defined `typeOptions` properties depending on the table column value. To allow this opportunity the `typeOptionsMappings` object should be added where the `typeOption` key and all available variants are defined.
```

Example

```ts
  typeOptionsMappings: {
    TYPE_OPTION_KEY: { TABLE_COLUMN_VALUE: DESIRED_VALUE_1, TABLE_COLUMN_VALUE: DESIRED_VALUE_2 },
  },
```

```ts
...
  typeOptions: {
    text: '${value}',
    color: 'red',
  },
  typeOptionsMappings: {
    text: { col3: 'Active', false: 'Inactive' },
    color: { col3: 'green'}
  },
...

// Possible showed table `text` and `color` variants:
// text - 'Active' and color - 'green' - if table column value is `col3`
// text - 'Inactive' and default color('red') - if table column value is `false`
// default text(table column value) and default color('red') - in other cases
```

> To get more info about table columns see [Column Types](/docs/marketplace/dev/front-end/table-design/table-column-types/index.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get more info about table columns see [Column Types](/docs/marketplace/dev/front-end/table-design/table-column-types/).
```
